Veronica.
- Can I have a moment
to say goodbye?
There they are.
Stop. Let them go, Silas.
- About your father,
I didn't have a choice.
You pulled the trigger.
- I didn't want it
to go that way.
- This is your
last chance, Gavin.
- They're gonna
shoot you down, Dad.
- Markman, hold your fire.
I'm coming down.
- Levi, I can't
let you do this.
Everyone on that flight
will die.
We're not going anywhere.
- Diana!
- She's gone.
- I told you
Dad wasn't gonna come.
Now we're stuck down here
because of you.
Hey.
What are you doing?
- There's a funeral
in the morning for Diana.
Thought this was the least
I could do.
- You're hurting,
but this isn't on you.
Look, neither of us
wanted this to happen.
But she shot first.
- Yeah,
after being stuck down here
for three years,
can you blame her?
We don't do what we did,
we'd be putting our sons
in the ground
along with everyone else
on that plane.
- That's not the way
they see it.
No, I suppose it's not.
There's nothing you can do
about that.
My experience is,
once someone's decided
you're the bad guy,
there's no changing their mind.
Where are you taking us?
- I know we're all freaking out
about the portal closing.
But trust me,
this is gonna cheer you up.
- Unless you found
another way home,
nothing's gonna cheer us up.
Hold that thought.
- Is that gold?
- More specifically,
that's American Civil War gold
from 1863.
Lucas and I found it.
- How the hell did it end up
down here?
- My theory,
and I think this is a good one,
is that it fell through another
sinkhole from the 1800s.
- I'm still waiting
for the part
where this cheers us up.
Come on, think about it.
If there was
a sinkhole in 1863,
not to mention the one
Diana came through,
maybe there are more,
which means there could be
another way home.
- Okay, this might be
my desperation talking,
but I think
that actually makes sense.
No, it doesn't.
We're not getting out of here.
My mom made sure of that.
The sooner the both of you
accept that,
the better off you'll be.
Josh.
Hey.
Can we talk about this?
Hey,
I know you're angry with me,
but I was just trying
to keep you safe.
Don't make this about me.
We're here because you chose
to believe Dad.
Look where that got us.
- Josh, you would've died
on that plane.
- Yeah? Well, I was willing
to take the risk.
So was everyone else.
You took that choice away.
- We're gonna have to find
a way to get past this.
I don't think we can.
Hello?
Veronica, is that you?
Please, I need your help.
No, no, no.
No, no, no, wait!
Thank you.
No, wait. Don't leave.
My hands. My--
I have to go.
No, wait.
Please.
Before she died...
Diana told me
that all she wanted
was to see her partner,
Sophia, again.
I'm so sorry I couldn't get you
back home to her, Diana.
Rest in peace.
Hey, how you holding up?
Not great. You?
Been better.
Have you seen Ty?
Lilly said he didn't
come back last night.
- No.
He should've been back by now.
- We should go look for him.
- Yeah.
Marybeth, we need to talk.
Okay.
- The group's decided
we'd feel more comfortable
if you handed over your gun.
Hey, this isn't funny.
That's where you're wrong.
You believe
I'm just gonna give up my gun
in a place like this?
You killed Diana.
I was defending myself.
I heard that before.
This isn't the first time
she's killed someone
and said it was self-defense.
She killed someone once?
It wasn't like that.
It isn't like that.
Maybe so.
But if you hadn't pulled
your gun,
none of this
would've ever happened.
- Levi, nobody wanted Diana
to get hurt.
You know that.
- If that plane took off,
everyone on it would be dead.
We saved you people.
- No, the two of you
stranded us here.
I mean, who knows
what they're gonna do next?
You both need to go.
Go where?
Anywhere but here.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, get out of here.
- Hey, no. We're not
sending them out there alone.
It's too dangerous.
- Come on, man,
you don't mean it.
No, I do.
- This is crazy.
They'll die out there.
Say something.
- Look, we never talked about
banishing anyone.
This was just about the gun.
- Yeah, well, no one talked
to me about anything.
And I say none of us
are safe with them around.
- He's right.
All right, everyone relax.
We need to settle this fairly.
Then let's take a vote.
Yeah, let's vote on it.
- They need to go.
- Who here wants them to go?
There you have it.
.
What about my family?
- There's another way
to save them.
Go back to the beginning,
Gavin.
November 16, 1988.
Remember that date.
What's this?
It's an NDA.
Saying what?
- That you're gonna
leave this alone
and never mention anything
about that sinkhole.
- My family's still down there.
You want me to just walk away?
- You flew into
restricted air space.
You ignored government orders.
You jeopardized
millions of lives.
Now, you're getting a free pass
because everyone wants this
to go away.
I suggest that you take it.
Dad!
Hey. Hey.
I'm so glad they let you out.
Yeah.
They made me sign an NDA...
Promise to put
all of this behind us.
What about Mom and Josh?
- Let's just take
one thing at a time.
It's been a long night.
Why don't you get some sleep?
Okay?
Okay.
Thanks for coming.
- What the hell happened
up there with Aldridge?
- Well, I was hoping
you could tell me that.
Did you know
she was gonna jump?
What she's gonna do
once she gets down there?
- No. Honestly, I'm just
as surprised as you are.
Did she say anything to you
on the plane?
- She said there might be
another way
to save Eve and Josh.
How?
- She said to go back
to the beginning.
And then she gave me a date--
November 16, 1988.
That's around the same time
I was adopted.
Somehow my past
is tied to all this.
I just need to figure out how,
and then maybe
I can bring them home.
- So what are you gonna do?
- Okay.
My parents always said that
I was anonymously dropped off
at Child Protective Services.
I need to find out
who that person was.
The problem is,
my records are sealed.
So I thought you might have
a contact
- who could help with that.
- No, Gavin,
even if I wanted to,
I signed the same NDA as you.
We could both go to prison.
- Yeah.
But it doesn't say anything
about helping a friend
reconnect
with their birth family,
does it?
You want to bring Diana home?
This could be our chance.
You stitched me up.
Thank you.
You're a medicine woman.
I'm Ty, by the way.
My friends told me about
a village not far from here.
Is that your home?
- Your friends
entered uninvited.
I know.
And they're sorry, really.
They were just looking
for answers,
trying to get back to our home.
They didn't mean any harm.
Yes.
Sky People
seem to say that a lot.
I've found it's seldom true.
Sky People?
- You're not the first
to come through the light.
- How long have others
been coming here?
As long as we can remember.
- Does that mean
there's a way out of here?
Back to my world?
I don't know. I have to go.
No, please, wait.
- You'll be safe here until
you're strong enough to leave.
Wait, please. Don't go.
I need answers.
What's wrong?
A storm is coming.
Neither of us can leave.
- Eve, you're not
going anywhere.
No, I should go.
Eve, please.
- You don't think
I deserve this?
You want me to say it?
Okay.
I'm mad as hell
at you right now.
I think you made
the wrong choice.
I could've brought
everyone home safely.
But that doesn't mean
I want you
to go out into the woods
to die.
- Yeah, well, looks like
you're alone in that.
- People aren't
thinking clearly.
Josh isn't thinking clearly.
- Which is exactly
why I should go.
Look, I'll go to
the caves with Marybeth,
and once people calm down,
I'll come back, okay?
- Okay, then I'm coming
with you.
No.
No, I need to do this
on my own.
Eve.
Look after Josh for me.
Thank you.
Hey, we need to talk.
About what?
- About how you went all
"Survivor"
on your mom and Marybeth.
Wasn't just me.
Thanks for your help, Josh.
If we're gonna start
a fire later,
we need to keep this wood dry.
- Has everyone
lost their mind?
You two are acting
like nothing's wrong.
- Look, emotions
are running high.
We let people cool down.
Then we can revisit
all of this.
Hey, guys, we need to talk.
Not now, Scott.
- It's actually
fairly time-sensitive.
What is it?
- Back in 10,000 B.C.,
the climate in LA
was quite different,
as perhaps you can tell.
We're in the Ice Age,
and with that came
violent winter storms,
oftentimes out of nowhere.
I'm talking snow
with hurricane-like winds.
Based on those clouds
over there,
I'd say things are gonna get
real bad real fast.
We need to get ready.
- All right. But I don't think
we need to panic.
Tell that to them.
Shouldn't you be leaving?
- I don't care
how much you hate me.
Nothing I did warrants the way
you threw me under the bus.
Ah, always a victim.
- Diana died because
I was saving your ass.
How about a thank-you?
Are we done?
I've tried with you.
I really have.
You don't want
a relationship, fine.
You got it.
Good.
- Hey, the weather's
changing pretty fast.
We should get going.
- I was getting ready
to leave anyway.
Lucas!
Hey, get off me!
Look out!
Marybeth! Lucas!
.
Lucas?
Lucas!
No, no, no.
Thank God.
Help!
We're trapped in here!
Can anybody hear--
Marybeth! Lucas!
Eve, you okay?
- Yeah. Yeah. But Marybeth
and Lucas are in here.
- We gotta get them out.
- Everyone spread out,
see if we can
pull some rubble off.
Be careful, we don't want
to cause a collapse.
This isn't working.
It's too heavy.
- They're right. We need tools
to break up the concrete.
- When I was driving back
from the plane yesterday,
I saw an 18-wheeler.
Maybe there's tools inside or
something else that can help.
You remember where it was?
- A couple of miles
east of here.
- That's not far.
I can take the Jeep.
- I'll go with you.
You're gonna need help.
- You sure?
- Yeah.
But let's go now
before I change my mind.
- Hey, kiddo,
get any sleep?
Not really.
But I'm not letting that
hold me back.
So what's our plan?
- I thought I'd
cook you some eggs
and drive you to school.
You're kidding, right?
I'm not going to school.
I know this is hard.
But I think it'll be good
for you
to get back to a routine,
something normal.
There is no normal now.
Iz...
we have to try
and move forward.
- Guess I'd better
get going, then.
Don't want to be late.
Thanks again for doing this.
Where's your sidekick?
Back at school.
I don't want
to get her hopes up
until I know that this
is gonna lead somewhere.
She's been through enough.
- So I managed to get
your CPS file.
Yeah.
A lot of it's redacted,
but it says here
you were handed over to CPS
by clergy
in a church from Topanga.
- Maybe somebody at the church
knows something.
You know, all my life,
I wondered
where I really came from,
who my, uh--
my parents really are.
Maybe I'll finally get
some answers to that too.
Let's go find out.
- Diana!
Everything okay?
- That picture
triggered a vision.
What was it?
I saw Diana.
- Oh, my God.
- Yeah, she was with Eve.
But I--I think something
was wrong.
What is it?
- I don't know. I--I--
I just saw fragments
of what was happening.
We have to get to the church,
figure out what Aldridge
wanted me to do,
and then get down there.
- Your people, have they
been here a long time?
Forever.
And you all speak English?
Who taught you?
- You should rest,
regain your strength.
It's a long walk back
to your camp,
and I can't take you there.
- I don't blame you
for being wary of outsiders.
Trusting them does not work out
well for your people
or mine
in a few thousand years.
So I've heard.
Was it someone from your group
who attacked you?
- Yes,
but the person who did it,
she's been through a lot.
The truth is...
there are so many dangers
down here.
Someone else in our group
was murdered.
I'm sorry to hear that.
- There's an old man
from your village
who has a handprint painted
on his clothes.
Do you know him?
Silas. Yes. Why do you ask?
- Because a young girl saw him
in the woods when it happened.
Silas would never do that.
I'm sorry.
I don't mean any offense.
We're just trying to survive
long enough to get home.
Is there anything,
anything you can tell us
about the light in the sky?
Will it come back?
- No one knows why the light
comes and goes.
You have a family
where you're from?
It was just me and my wife.
She must miss you.
I'm not so sure about that.
We're divorced.
I actually saw her
the morning I fell down here.
I haven't been feeling so well.
I begged her to take me back,
make a go of it one more time.
And did she agree?
I'm sorry.
You know what's funny?
Once I knew she
was gone for good,
I was pretty sure there was
nothing left to live for.
But this place...
it's changed
something in me.
It's almost like...
trying to survive has forced me
to start living again.
- Our home can be
a wonderful place.
It's nice to meet someone
from your world
who can see beyond its dangers.
What are you doing?
- Digging a tunnel
to get them out that way.
- I don't need to state
the obvious,
but it's kind of unsafe
out here.
You guys need to take cover.
Whoa! Crap! That is not good.
- We'll make sure
everyone's okay.
Eve, this is crazy.
It could take hours
to dig them out,
and as much
as I hate to say it,
we don't even know
if they're still alive.
I'm not leaving!
Listen to me. You gotta stop.
I can't.
- You can't be responsible
for everyone.
You don't have to stay here.
But I'm not going anywhere.
Hey, what are you doing?
Hey, you okay?
What happened?
- Phone pole hit the structure.
Brought it down on us.
- Oh, Jesus,
we need to get out of here.
I'm trying.
Hey. Hey! Hey, stop!
Stop! You're gonna
bring it down on us!
Oh! I can see light!
I can see light.
- Help!
Help! Can anybody hear me?
Did you hear that?
Can anyone hear me?
It's Marybeth. She's alive.
Marybeth! Can you hear me?
Yeah! We're here! We're here!
Okay. Hold tight.
We're gonna get you
out of here.
.
- Thanks for helping us,
Reverend.
33 years is a long time.
Luckily, Reverend Harmon
was here then.
Reverend Harmon.
This is Mr. Gavin Harris,
the man from your past
I was telling you about.
- It's nice to see you
after all these years.
You remember me?
- I'd only been in the church
a few weeks.
A group of us were driving home
from the local food bank,
and that's when we saw you
by the side of the road.
On the side of the road?
What was I doing there?
Walking.
You looked lost, scared.
There was a house nearby,
but the owners said they didn't
recognize you or the girl.
What girl?
- Oh, she was about
12 years old.
Neither of you could remember
anything,
even your names.
- Do you know
what happened to her?
I'm sorry, I don't.
We called child services,
and they took the both of you.
I'd hoped that you'd find
a home together,
but I guess
that wasn't meant to be.
I'm afraid that's all I know.
Thank you, Reverend.
- You have no idea
who that girl was?
- No. I don't remember
anything before my adoption.
But if Aldridge is pointing me
toward the girl,
maybe she knows something.
Maybe she can help.
- I'll call my contact at CPS,
see if we can get a name.
Yeah.
Quick, let's get inside.
- There's gotta be
something useful in there.
You're kidding me.
- Something tells me
we're not gonna
find a jackhammer in here.
They're costumes.
This is a wardrobe truck.
You know, like for a movie.
Oh, my God, something warm.
Thank you, Lord.
- We should go back out there,
look somewhere else.
- Scott was right.
The storm is getting worse.
The only thing we're gonna
accomplish out there
is getting ourselves killed.
- You want to stay,
I don't blame you,
but I'm going.
Josh, I get you're pissed
at your mom and you want
to prove yourself.
That's not what I'm doing.
- Have you ever considered that
maybe you should be grateful?
You have a parent who loves you
so much, she's willing
to sabotage our way home
just to protect you.
- Why are you defending her?
I thought you hated her.
- I was upset
when she left my dad.
But we've been through a lot
the last few days.
The point is,
she's clearly a good mom.
And you're stupid
if you don't see that.
I'm staying in here
till the storm dies down.
I hope you do too.
Damn it!
What the hell
are they doing up there?
Trying to get us out.
- Yeah, well, they need
to try harder.
You okay? You hurt?
- I'm fine.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
- Okay. Okay. You never
did like small spaces,
even as a little kid.
Wouldn't even ride
in an elevator.
- But hey--
Remember the exercise
we used to do?
When we absolutely had to be
in a small space?
Focus on one thing you can see.
I'm not some scared kid.
One thing you can see.
Good. Breathe.
Now focus on something
you can touch.
you can hear.
Come on.
There's got to be something
you can hear right now.
- Can't hear anything
with you yapping away.
- Glad to see you're feeling
like yourself again.
Lucas...
we need to talk
about your dad.
- I don't want
to talk about him.
- Well, we are.
We may not have much time left.
There are things
you need to know.
And everything I did,
I did to protect you.
Stop lying.
I'm not lying.
I'm trying to finally
tell you the truth.
What the hell?
Eve! Eve!
- I'm here. I'm here.
We're moving as fast as we can.
- Jesus! Well, move faster!
This thing's about to collapse!
No.
Get us out of here now!
.
- Okay.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
Okay.
Okay, I've got
some people making calls.
Hopefully, we hear back soon.
- I can't thank you enough,
Sophia.
- Oh, we've both
got people down there.
Diana! She's gone.
What is it?
I saw Diana again.
And?
Huh.
She's dead, isn't she?
How?
I didn't see.
Sophia, I'm--
I'm so sorry.
- The wind must've
destabilized it.
This whole thing's
about to come down.
We have to get them now.
How?
- Remember how they opened
the hatch on "Lost"?
They used old dynamite
they found on the island.
Then "Bam!"
Blew it right open.
I'll shut up now.
- That's actually
not a bad idea.
It isn't?
What are you doing?
I'm making an IED.
It'll blow a hole
in the concrete.
Then we can pull them out.
- I can't believe you're
actually listening to me.
- Well, have you made
one before?
- No. But I've dismantled
a few in my day.
We'll use the electricity from
the defib as a power supply.
These wires
will bring the charge.
All we need is an explosive.
- Like, uh--like gunpowder.
That's perfect.
- Not that I don't appreciate
the whole
"MacGyver" thing
that's going on here,
but when you say "IED,"
I get a little nervous.
- Yeah, I-I have to agree.
How do you know
that won't kill them?
I don't.
- What the hell?
Lucas, you were right.
I didn't kill your father
in self-defense.
I knew it.
I did it to save you.
I know why you loved him.
I loved him too.
He was funny and charming...
and could make you feel
like the most important
person in the world, but...
That wasn't real.
When I found out
what he was doing,
the worst part wasn't
that he was stealing drugs
from the department.
It was that he got you
mixed up in it.
- So that's why you killed him?
Because he was working with me?
No. I was gonna turn him in.
But IA was onto him,
and he knew it.
Time I figured it out,
he'd already used all his
connections to cut a deal.
What deal?
The one to give you up.
He laid it all at your feet,
said you were
behind everything.
He was gonna go free.
You were gonna spend the rest
of your life in a cage.
No.
No, he wouldn't do that to me.
He had it all set up.
I begged him
not to go through with it.
Reminded him what it would do
to you to be locked up.
It would've--it would've
been a death sentence.
But he wouldn't listen.
Son, he was gonna sacrifice
your life for himself.
No.
- He was on his way
to turn you in, Lucas.
- No, he--
- I had to stop him.
Well, if that's true,
then why wouldn't you
tell me before this?
When, huh?
You haven't wanted
to hear anything I had to say
since you were, what, 15?
And I knew that
when you found out the truth,
it was gonna break your heart.
Because when I found out...
it broke mine.
Why should I believe a word
you're saying?
Look where we are.
I got no reason to lie.
- Marybeth!
- Listen to me.
We're gonna use an IED to blow
a hole through the concrete.
Then we'll pull you out.
Hold on. What?
- No. Are you insane?
You'll kill us.
- Just stay as far back
as you can.
- This is it!
Everybody get back.
.
Marybeth! Lucas!
Come on. Come on.
We're here. We're okay.
Come here. Come on.
- It's gonna collapse!
Come on. Come on. Go, go, go!
That was uncomfortably close.
- God, I can't believe
our lives have come to this.
Can I ask you something?
Why'd you drop out of premed?
That's your question?
- You're really smart,
good under pressure.
Even though you don't have
the best...bedside manner.
- I think you'd be
a really good doctor.
- Honestly, I don't know
what I want to do with my life.
But I do know
I want the choice to be mine.
I get that.
You know,
before all this happened,
I was sending out
my college applications.
My top choice was UCLA.
Mm.
- I wonder if we would've
ran into each other on campus.
- Oh, I don't usually
talk to freshmen.
I'm kidding.
I would've made
an exception for you.
- Wait.
- What?
Do you hear that?
I didn't hear anything.
The wind stopped.
Come on.
Let's get the hell out of here.
Great.
- We got a name on the girl.
Ella Jones. She's an artist.
Only have an address
for her gallery in Silver Lake.
Thank you, Sophia.
I'll drop you home,
and I'll--I'll head over.
- It was only home if Diana
was gonna be there.
I'm coming with you.
You don't have to do that.
Yes, I do.
Diana was the strongest person
I've ever known.
She wouldn't have given up,
and neither can I.
We have to bring everyone home.
I don't think anybody's here.
Gavin, look.
Come on.
Hello?
I can't believe it.
What?
- I've seen this before
in my visions.
It's a handprint.
Whoever Ella is...
she's connected to that place.
How do you feel?
Better.
If there's ever anything I can
do to repay your kindness...
No need.
I still don't know your name.
It's Paara.
Good luck, Ty.
Wait.
You don't know your way.
No, I suppose I don't.
Maybe you could point me
in the right direction?
Maybe I can.
About time, buddy.
- We got caught in the storm.
Couldn't find any tools.
- Looks like Marybeth and Lucas
are okay.
They are.
We got them out on our own,
thanks to Eve.
Saved our asses.
It was a group effort.
Whoa. Score.
Where did you find all of this?
- That 18-wheeler was actually
a wardrobe truck.
Considering it's getting
pretty damn cold around here,
we thought we might need
a few more jackets.
- Mom, I know you're upset,
and you have every right to be.
I'm sorry.
- Hey, I'm--I'm gonna head out.
You're gonna have to take care
of yourself for a little while.
No way. You're not leaving.
Guys, I say we take a new vote.
- I agree.
- Me too.
- Only if Marybeth
gives up that gun.
Seriously?
You guys are unbelievable.
Hey, come on. Just...
hand over the gun.
- Yeah, come on.
It's the right thing to do.
Thanks.
Well done. Well done.
- Now, all in favor
of Eve and Marybeth
staying in the clearing,
raise your hands.